! Meteor Updates

!! General comments

Do I want to use spiderable now?

Do I want to stick to login with Facebook and Twitter?

Do I want to use the `force-ssl` package now?


!!v0.6.0

Is the self-containment of JS files still a thing?

What is the whitelisted list of modifier operators, client-side?


!! v0.6.3

"Add new `check` package for ensuring that a value matches a required type and structure. This is used to validate untrusted input from the client. See http://docs.meteor.com/#match for details.

"Files in the `client/compatibility/` subdirectory of a Meteor app do not get wrapped in a new variable scope. This is useful for third-party libraries which expect var statements at the outermost level to be global."

What is the `connection` option of `Meteor.Collection`?


!! v0.6.4

Does the separation of OAuth flow logic from Accounts give me something I can use for nicer login UX?

"Allow new `Random` instances to be constructed with specified seed. This can be used to create repeatable test cases for code that picks random values."


!! v0.6.5

"Remove hardcoded list of required packages. New default `standard-app-packages` package adds dependencies on the core Meteor stack. This package can be removed to make an app with only parts of the Meteor stack. `standard-app-packages` will be automatically added to a project when it is updated to Meteor 0.6.5."

"New API (`_transitional_registerBuildPlugin`) for declaring compilers, preprocessors, and file extension handlers. These new build plugins are full compilation targets in their own right, and have their own namespace, source files, NPM requirements, and package dependencies. The old `register_extension` API is deprecated. Please note that the `package.js` format and especially `_transitional_registerBuildPlugin` are not frozen interfaces and are subject to change in future releases."

"Move HTTP serving out of the server bootstrap and into the `webapp` package. This allows building Meteor apps that are not web servers (eg. command line tools, DDP clients, etc.). Connect middlewares can now be registered on the new `WebApp.connectHandlers` instead of the old `__meteor_bootstrap__.app.`"

"Add new `Assets` API and `private` subdirectory for including and accessing static assets on the server. http://docs.meteor.com/#assets"

"Rename `Meteor.http` to `HTTP`"

Support creating named unmanaged collections with new `Meteor.Collection("name", {connection: null})`.

New `Log` function in the `logging` package which prints with timestamps, color, filenames and linenumbers.


!! v0.6.6

Add `browser-policy` package for configuring and sending Content-Security-Policy and X-Frame-Options HTTP headers. See the docs for more.

Add upsert support. `Collection.update` now supports the `{upsert: true}` option. Additionally, add a `Collection.upsert` method which returns the newly inserted object id if applicable.

Mongo `update` and `remove` now return the number of documents affected.

The `fields` option to the collection methods `find` and `findOne` now works on the client as well. (Operators such as `$elemMatch` and `$` are not yet supported in `fields` projections.)

Support `c.find(query, {limit: N}).count()` on the client.

[Behavior Change] Expire login tokens periodically. Defaults to 90 days. Use `Accounts.config({loginExpirationInDays: null})` to disable token expiration.

[Behavior Change] Write dates generated by Meteor Accounts to Mongo as Date instead of number; existing data can be converted by passing it through `new Date()`


!! v0.7.0

Add `Meteor.onConnection` and add `this.connection` to method invocations and publish functions. These can be used to store data associated with individual clients between subscriptions and method calls. See http://docs.meteor.com/#meteor_onconnection for details.

New `facts` package publishes internal statistics about Meteor.

Add `WebAppInternals.setBundledJsCssPrefix()` to control where the client loads bundled JavaScript and CSS files. This allows serving files from a CDN to decrease page load times and reduce server load.


!! v0.7.1.1

Integrate with Meteor developer accounts, a new way of managing your meteor.com deployed sites. When you use `meteor deploy`, you will be prompted to create a developer account.

Once you've created a developer account, you can log in and out from the command line with `meteor login` and `meteor logout`.

You can claim legacy sites with `meteor claim`. This command will prompt you for your site password if you are claiming a password-protected site; after claiming it, you will not need to enter the site password again.

This release also includes the `accounts-meteor-developer` package for building Meteor apps that allow users to log in with their own developer accounts.

Change default accounts-ui styling and add more CSS classes.

Deprecate `Accounts.loginServiceConfiguration` in favor of `ServiceConfiguration.configurations`, exported by the `service-configuration`.


!! v0.7.2

Add hooks to login process: `Accounts.onLogin`, `Accounts.onLoginFailure`, and `Accounts.validateLoginAttempt`. These functions allow for rate limiting login attempts, logging an audit trail, account lockout flags, and more. See: http://docs.meteor.com/#accounts_validateloginattempt

Add support for HTML email in `Accounts.emailTemplates`.


!! v0.8.0

Meteor 0.8.0 introduces Blaze, a total rewrite of our live templating engine, replacing Spark. Advantages of Blaze include:

* Better interoperability with jQuery plugins and other techniques which directly manipulate the DOM

* More fine-grained updates: only the specific elements or attributes that change are touched rather than the entire template

* No need for the confusing `{{#constant}}`, `{{#isolate}}`, and `preserve` directives

* Uses standard jQuery delegation (.on) instead of our custom implementation.

* Blaze supports live SVG templates that work just like HTML templates

See the [Using Blaze wiki page](https://github.com/meteor/meteor/wiki/Using-Blaze) for full details on upgrading your app to 0.8.0. This includes:

* The `Template.foo.rendered` callback is now only called once when the template is rendered, rather than repeatedly as it is "re-rendered", because templates now directly update changed data instead of fully re-rendering.

* The `accounts-ui` login buttons are now invoked as a `{{> loginButtons}}` rather than as `{{loginButtons}}`.

* Previous versions of Meteor used a heavily modified version of the Handlebars templating language. In 0.8.0, we've given it its own name: Spacebars!

* The Handlebars namespace has been deprecated. Handlebars.SafeString is now Spacebars.SafeString, and Handlebars.registerHelper is now UI.registerHelper.


!! v0.8.1.

Add `meteor list-sites` command for listing the sites that you have deployed to meteor.com with your Meteor developer account.

Add support for `{{!-- block comments --}}` in Spacebars. Block comments may contain `}}`, so they are more useful than `{{! normal comments}}` for commenting out sections of Spacebars templates.

The document passed to the `insert` callback of `allow` and `deny` now only has a `_id` field if the client explicitly specified one; this allows you to use `allow`/`deny` rules to prevent clients from specifying their own `_id`.


!! v0.8.2

Switch `accounts-password` to use bcrypt to store passwords on the server. (Previous versions of Meteor used a protocol called SRP.) Users will be transparently transitioned when they log in. This transition is one-way, so you cannot downgrade a production app once you upgrade to 0.8.2.

Add `UI._templateInstance()` for accessing the current template instance from within a block helper.

Add `UI._parentData(n)` for accessing parent data contexts from within a block helper.

Add preliminary API for registering hooks to run when Blaze intends to insert, move, or remove DOM elements. For example, you can use these hooks to animate nodes as they are inserted, moved, or removed. To use them, you can set the `_uihooks` property on a container DOM element. `_uihooks` is an object that can have any subset of the following three properties:

* `insertElement: function (node, next)`: called when Blaze intends to insert the DOM element node before the element next

* `moveElement: function (node, next)`: called when Blaze intends to move the DOM element node before the element next

* `removeElement: function (node)`: called when Blaze intends to remove the DOM element node

Note that when you set one of these functions on a container element, Blaze will not do the actual operation; it's your responsibility to actually insert, move, or remove the node (by calling `$(node).remove()`, for example).

Add --directory flag to `meteor bundle`. Setting this flag outputs a directory rather than a tarball.


!! v0.8.3

Add `this.autorun` to the template instance, which is like `Deps.autorun` but is automatically stopped when the template is destroyed.

On the server, `Meteor.startup(c)` now calls `c` immediately if the server has already started up, matching the client behavior.

Add support for server-side source maps when debugging with `node-inspector`.

Add `WebAppInternals.addStaticJs()` for adding static JavaScript code to be served in the app, inline if allowed by `browser-policy`.


!! v0.9.0

Meteor 0.9.0 introduces the Meteor Package Server. Incorporating lessons from our community's Meteorite tool, Meteor 0.9.0 allows users to develop and publish Meteor packages to a central repository. See https://docs.meteor.com/#writingpackages and https://docs.meteor.com/#packagejs for more details.

To prepare a bundle created with `meteor bundle` for execution on a server, you now run `npm install` with no arguments instead of having to specify a few specific npm modules and their versions explicitly. See the README in the generated bundle for more details.


!! v0.9.1

Meteor 0.9.1 ships with organizations support in Meteor developer accounts. Organizations are teams of users that make it easy to collaborate on apps and packages.

Create an organization at https://www.meteor.com/account-settings/organizations. Run the `meteor authorized` command in your terminal to give an organization permissions to your apps. To add an organization as a maintainer of your packages, use the `meteor admin maintainers` command. You can also publish packages with an organization's name in the package name prefix instead of your own username.

Package renames:

* `livedata` -> `ddp`
* `mongo-livedata` -> `mongo`
* `standard-app-packages` -> `meteor-platform`

Symbol renames

* `Meteor.Collection` -> `Mongo.Collection`
* `Meteor.Collection.Cursor` -> `Mongo.Cursor`
* `Meteor.Collection.ObjectID` -> `Mongo.ObjectID`
* `Deps` -> `Tracker`

Add `reactive-var` package. Lets you define a single reactive variable, like a single key in `Session`.


!! v0.9.2

This release contains our first support for building mobile apps in Meteor, for both iOS and Android. This support comes via an integration with Apache's Cordova/PhoneGap project. See https://github.com/meteor/meteor/wiki/Meteor-Cordova-Phonegap-integration for more information about how to get started building mobile apps with Meteor.

The `meteor bundle` command has been renamed to `meteor build` and now outputs build projects for the mobile version of the targeted app.


!! v0.9.3

Offically support `Meteor.wrapAsync`. See https://docs.meteor.com/#meteor_wrapasync.


!! v0.9.4

The new `meteor debug` command and `--debug-port` command line option to `meteor run` allow you to easily use node-inspector to debug your server-side code. Add a `debugger` statement to your code to create a breakpoint.

Add new a `meteor run --test` command that runs [Velocity](https://github.com/meteor-velocity/velocity) tests in your app .

Deprecate the `Template.someTemplate.myHelper = ...` syntax in favor of `Template.someTemplate.helpers(...)`. Using the older syntax still works, but prints a deprecation warning to the console.

Deprecate the `amplify`, `backbone`, `bootstrap`, and `d3` integration packages in favor of community alternatives. These packages will no longer be maintained by MDG.

Packages can now be marked as debug-mode only by adding `debugOnly: true` to `Package.describe`. Debug-only packages are not included in the app when it is bundled for production (`meteor build`or `meteor run --production`). This allows package authors to build packages specifically for testing and debugging without increasing the size of the resulting app bundle or causing apps to ship with debug functionality built in.
